---
title: Nov 20, 2023
---
# Coding Journal: Nov 20, 2023


### Scrum Framework

* There are three roles required in Scrum:
    
    * Product owner:
        
        * Define what need to be done and in what order.
            
        * Talk to user executives, team, stakeholders, customers to gather requirements then put them to backlog
            
    * Scrum master:
        
        * Help the team to stay true to the Scrum values and principles
            
        * Help facilitate most of the meetings in the team, drive the resolution if there's any roadblock
            
    * The team:
        
        * They are self-organizing and do most of the building works.
            
        * They need to get together for sprint planning meeting to pick up stories to work and put them on the backlog, then start sprinting
            
        * They also need to get together for daily stand-up.
            
            * In daily stand-ups, they will update what they did yesterday, what they are working on today, and if there are any roadblocks they are facing.
                
        * At the end of the sprint, sprint review meeting is needed to get feedbacks or additional ideas or features.
            
        * Sprint retrospective meeting is where they talk about how they can do better, what went well, and what didn't.
            
        * Use burn-down or burn-up chart to keep track of the progress.
            

## How Scrum support Agile principles

* Embrace changes: After every sprint, you can make changes to your product backlog and shift your products to different directions if needed.
    
* Support a lot of collaborations between team members and clients
    
* Support continuous improvement with sprint retrospective
    

\=&gt; Embody key principles in Agile

### Summary:

* There are three main roles in Scrum: Product owner, Scrum master, and the team.
    
* There are rituals like sprint planning meeting, daily Scrum meeting, sprint review, and sprint retrospective.
    
* There are some artifacts like product backlog, sprint backlog, and burn-down chart, etc.
    

---

### Sprint Planning and Tracking

***Sprint Planning***

* Sprint Planning prep work: Make sure that your backlog is up-to-date, which is also known as Backlog Grooming
    
* Backlog Grooming:
    
    * Remove user stories that no longer appeal relevant
        
    * Create new user stories in response to newly discovered needs
        
    * Re-assessing the relative priority of stories
        
    * Splitting user stories which are high priority but too coarse (rough) grained to fit in an upcoming shift.
        
* Select and prepare stories. How to select potential stories:
    
    * Story Map
        
    * Prioritize backlog and velocity
        
    * Make sure the stories are ready to be worked upon (who, what, why, acceptance tests, and any major dependencies)
        

***Sprint planning begins***

* There are two possible steps to start sprinting
    
    * One: Select one story at the time, task it out until capacity reached
        
    * Two:
        
        * Select stories based on velocity
            
        * Task out and gain confidence
            

***Sprint planning steps:***

* Determin sprint capacity
    
* Review and refine sprint goals if required
    
* Review potential stories
    
* Acquire confidence: Design discussion and task out stories:
    
    * Not everyone has to stick around, Product Owner is there to answer questions, which is helpful
        
    * Face-to-face conversation helps
        
    * Tip: time-box activities/discussions, estimate tasks in ideal days/hours.
        
* Make commitment
    
* Put the stories and tasks on the task wall
    

***Sprint planning logistics:***

* Who to invite?
    
    * Set up: a recurring meeting
        
        * core team members: Product Owner, Scrum master, developers, testers, analysts, etc.
            
        * Users/clients/business people who can answer questions if any
            
    * How long:
        
        * It depends on complexity/preparedness/team's maturity but general guideline - If you include "tasking-out" activity - around 4 hours for a 2-week sprint
            

(\*) What's the difference between velocity and capacity?

* Velocity is based on the story sizes whereas capacity is what we calculate based on the availability of hours and days of individual team members.
    

---

***Sprint tracking tools:***

* Burn-down chart (work left): we map the amount of work left in a sprint
    
* Burn-up chart (work done + total work)
    
* Task board: task board visible during standup, definition of done, too many in-progress -&gt; bad smell
    

### Sprint execution and standups

***Sprint execution:***

* Who works on what? oder the cards in priority
    
* Limit work in progress: find the right balance
    
* Parallel work vs swarming: practical? skll x helping skill to finish story
    
* Generalists vs specialists: tip: skill map, pairing
    
* Decipline: to follow what team decides to do
    
* Engineering practices
    

Daily standup:

* What: Three common questions - What did you do yesterday? What are you working on today? Is there any roadblock?
    
* Who: Core team + any stakeholders who want to attend
    
* Purpose: Daily team planning, collaborate, identify blockers, status check
    

***Sprint review:***

* Purpose:
    
    * Review work done and learnings from the sprint
        
    * Get feedback and adjust future direction
        
    * Celebrate
        
* Who attend this sprint review: core team, stakeholders, etc.
    
* How long: 1 - 2 hours
    
* What happens: summarize, demo, discuss, and adapt
    

***Sprint review tips:***

* Don't wait for review to show your work, early and regular feedbacks are preferred
    
* Some teams follow this rule -&gt; demo done things only
    
* Make effort to get stakeholders to attend
    
* Presentations by individuals
    
* Prep work
    

***Sprint retrospective:***

* Where you reflect how was the process, how did the team work together, how they can get better
    

* Who: core team
    
* When: at the end of each iteration
    
* Purpose: continuous improvement
    
* What happens: what's working, what's not working, action items?
    
* Alternative: focused retro
    
* Steps: set the amotsphere, share context, identify insights, determine actions, close the reospective
    
* Follow through
    
* Change the retro format
    
* Tips: avoid finger pointing, select few action items, get people talking (non work question, round robin, manager opt out), individual -&gt; group -&gt; team
    

---

### ***XP (Extreme Programming) values: Simplicity, Communication, Courage, Feedback, and Respect.***

Simplicity:

* We will do only what is necessary and nothing more -&gt; maximize value
    
* What is the simplest thing that could possibly work?
    
* We will take smaller steps toward our goals and iterate
    

Communication:

* Everyone is part of the team and we communicate face to face daily
    
* We will work together on everything from requirements to code
    
* Important for creating a sense of team and effective collaboration
    

Courage:

* We will tell the truth about the progress
    
* We don't document excuses for failure because we plan to succeed
    
* We will adapt changes whenever we have them
    

Feedback:

* Getting feedback is important if you want to iterate and improve
    
* Generate as much feedback as a team can handle as quickly as possible
    
* Slow down feedback if you can't adapt
    
* Feedback comes in many forms
    

Respect:

* Foundation of previous four
    
* Respecting each other is key for XP to succeed
    
* No one is instrinsically worth more than anyone else.
    

### ***XP practices:***

* Do practices while keeping their purpose in mind
    
* Practices were written with ideal state in mind. keep making progress towards them
    
* Experiment and see if it helps
    
* Practices work well together
    
* Primary and corollary practices
    

1. Sit together: open working environment, highly collaborative environment, not before team is ready
    
2. Whole team: everyone needed for project success if part of the team, team composition is dynamic, no fractional people
    
3. Informative workspace: get an idea in 15 seconds, dynamic information, clearliness and order
    
4. energized work: working hours should be productive, sick should stayout and rest well, incremental improvement
    
5. Pair programming: two people working together but work alone when needed
    
    * Benefits: keep each other on task, brainstorm refinements to the system, clarify ideas, take initiative when their partner is stuck, hold each other accountable to the team's practices
        
6. Stories: unit of functionality, stories are flexible, estimate only, keep the stories visible and don't computerize it
    
7. Weekly cycle:
    
    * Plan weekly: review progress, select week's worth work, break stories into tasks
        
    * Gradually reduce planning time
        
    * Task ownership
        
8. Quarterly cycle:
    
    * plan work quarter at a time
        
    * focus on the big picture, where the projects fits within the organization
        
    * plan the theme or themes for the quarter
        
    * pick a quarter's worth of stories to address those themes.
        
    * identify bottlenecks, especially those controlled outside the team
        
9. Slack:
    
    * Build some slack time into the process
        
    * How?
        
        * Lower priority tasks that can be skipped
            
        * One week everyt 8th week as geek week
            
        * 20% time for programmer-chosen tasks
            
10. Avoid aggressive commitments
    

Ten minute build:

* Build and run all the tests within 10 minutes
    
* New to agile: automated build, key tests and continue to evolve
    
* Give confidence and reduce stress
    

Continuous integration:

* Integrate and test changes after no more than a couple of hours
    
* Asynchronous integrations
    
* Synchronous integerations
    

Test first programming:

* Write test - run tests to see it fail -&gt; write code -&gt; unit test pass
    
* Benefits: avoid scope creep, build trust in team members, reduce coupling
    

Incremental design:

* Invest a little in design everyday
    
* Excess complexity -&gt; refactor
    
* Architecture emerges over time

