---
title: Apr 30
description: Coding Journal - Sun, Apr 30
tags: ['journal']
---

25 nooby Python habits you need to ditch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qUeud6DvOWI&t=9s

1. Manual string formatting:

    - Instead of using "+" operator to concatenate string, we should use print(f"{variable}) to make your program look better and well-organized

    ```
    def manual_string_formatting(name, age):
        # bad formating with "+" operator
        print("Hi " + name + "! You are " + age + " years old")
        # good string formatting    
        print(f"Hi {name}! You are {age} years old")
    ```

2. Manually closing file

3. Using "try" and "finally" instead of a context manager

3. Using a bare "except"

4. Thinking that "^" is exponentiation ("^" is bitwise XOR, "**" is exponentiation)

    - A bitwise operator is an operator used to perform bitwise operations on bit patterns or binary numerals that involve the manipulation of individual bits:

    - OR (|): return True if any of the operands is true

    - XOR (^): return True if one of its operands is true

    - AND (&): return True if all operands are true

5. Use of default mutable arguments

6. Never using comprehension, or only using list comprehension

    - Using comprehension for dictionary, list, set, and tuple can help your code look more organized

    ```
     dict_comp = {i: i * i for i in range(10)}
    print(dict_comp)

    list_comp = [x*x for x in range(10)]
    print(list_comp)

    set_comp = {i % 3 for i in range(10)}
    print(set_comp)
    ```

7. Always using comprehensions: Using comprehensions too much can make your code confusing

8. Checking for a type using "==": Should use isinstance() instead

9. Using "==" to check for None, True, and False: Should use "is" instead

10. Using an if bool(x) or len(x) to check: Can use "if x" instead

11. Using the range(len(a)):

    - You can just use "for x in a" to access every value of the list instead

    - You can also use enumerate to access index and value of the list

    ``` python
        def for_key_in_dict_key():
        d = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
        for key in d.keys():
            print(key)
        print("---")
        # default
        for key in d:
            print(key)


        def not_using_dict_items():
            d = {'a': 1, 'b': 2, 'c': 3}
            for key in d:
                val = d[key]
                print(f"Value in dict {val}")
            print("----")
            # more optimal, using items() to get key and value pair
            for key, val in d.items():
                print(f"Key {key}")
                print(f"Value {val}")


        for_key_in_dict_key()
        not_using_dict_items()
    ```

12. Now knowing about the dictionary item methods

13. Not using tuple unpacking

14. Creating your own counter index variable:

15. Using time.time() to time things

16. time.time() is used to return the time at the momment

17. time.perf_counter is more accurate to estimate how much time it would take to run the program

18. Littering your code with print statements instead of using the logging module

19. Using shell=True on any function in the subprocess library

20. Doing maths or any kind of data analysis in Python: should use numpy and pandas instead

21. Using import \ outside of an interactive session: should import only the thing you need*

22. Depending on a specific directory structure for your project

23. The common misconception that Python is not compiled

24. Not following PEP8: PEP8 - Style guide for Python Code: https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/

25. Doing anything to do with Python 2



#### What to look up and practice more:

- try and except: try and except are used to handle exception

    - The try block lets you test a block of code for errors.

    - The except block lets you handle the error.

    - The else block lets you execute code when there is no error.

    - The finally block lets you execute code, regardless of the result of the try- and except blocks.

- matrix product

- isinstance(): The isinstance() function returns True if the specified object is of the specified type, otherwise False.

- enumarate(): enumerate() lets you write Pythonic for loops when you need a count and the value from an iterable. The big pro of advantage of enumerate() is that it returns a tuple with the counter and value, so you don't have to increment the counter yourself.

- zip(): The zip() function returns a zip object, which is an iterator of tuples where the first item in each passed iterator is paired together, and then the second item in each passed iterator are paired together etc.
