---
title: Aug 23, 2024
---

# Coding Journal: Aug 23, 2024

# 1. What I Learned and Did Today
- Started studying AZ-204: Develop solutions that use Blob storage:
    - Explore Azure Blob storage
    - Manage the Azure Blob storage lifecycle 
    - Work with Azure Blob storage

# 2. Questions I Had Today
- I didn't have any question for today.

# 3. What I Found Challenging Today
- I didn't find anything challenging for today.

# 4. Notes I Took Today
- What is an Azure blob? 
    - <mark>A blob is a binary, large object and storage option for any type of data that you want to store in a binary format</mark>

- What is Azure Blob storage? 
    - Azure Blob storage is Microsoft's object storage solution for the cloud.
    - Blob storage is optimized for storing massive amounts of unstructured data. <i>Unstructured data is data that doesn't adhere to a particular data model or definition, such as text or binary data.</i>  
    - Blob storage is used for:
        - Serving images or documents directly to a browser
        - Storing files for distributed access.
        - Streaming video and audio.
        - Writing to log files.
        - Storing data for backup and restorem, disaster recovery, and archiving. 
        - Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service. 
    - Users or client applications can access objects in Blob storage via HTTP/HTTPS, from anywhere in the world. 
    - Objects in Blob storage are accessible via the Azure Storage REST API, Azure PowerShell, Azure CLI, or an Azure Storage client library. 

- What are Blob storage resource types?
    - Blob storage offers three types of resources: <mark>The storage account, a container in the storage account, and a blob in a container</mark>

- What is a container (in the storage account)?
    - A container organizes a set of blobs, similar to a directory in a file system. 
    - A storage account can include an unlimited number of containers, and a container can store an unlimited number of blobs. 

- What are access tiers in Azure storage?
    - Hot - an online tier optimized for storing data that <b>is accessed frequently</b>
    - Cool - an online tier optimized for storing data that <b>is infrequently accessed and stored for a minimum of 30 days</b>
    - Cold - an online tier opitmized for storing data that is <b>infrequently accessed and stored for a minimum of 90 days</b>. The cold tier has lower storage costs and higer access costs compared to the cool tier. 
    - Archive - an online tier optimized for storing data that is <b>rarely accessed and stored for at least 180 days</b> with flexible latency requirements, on the order of hours.

- What can you do with the life cycle management policy?
    - Transition blob froom cool to hot immediately when accessed, to optimize for performance. 
    - Transition current versions of a blob, previous version of a blob, or blob snapshots to a cooler storage tier if these objects aren't accessed or modified for a period of time, to optimize for cost.
    - Delete current version of a blob, previous versions of a blob, or blob snapshots at the end of their life cycles. 
    - Apply rules to an entire storage account, to select containers, or to a subset of blob using name prefixes or blob index tags as filters.

- Basic classes of Azure Blob storage client library:
    - BlobClient: Allow you to manipulate Azure Storage blobs.
    - BlobClientOptions: Provide the client configuration options for connecting to Azure Blob Storage.
    - BlobContainerClient: Allow you to manipulate Azure Storage service resources and blob containers. The storage account provides the top-level namespace for the Blob service.
    - BlobUriBuilder: Provide a convenient wau to modify the contents of a Uri instance to point to different Azure Storage resources like an account, container, or blob. 
