---
title: Aug 21, 2024
---

# Coding Journal: Aug 21, 2024

# 1. What I Learned and Did Today
- Started studying for AZ204 - Azure Developer Associate
- Completed AZ-204: Implement Azure App Service Web App:
    - Explore Azure App Service
    - Configure web app settings
    - Scale apps in Azure App Service
    - Explore Azure App Service deployment slots

# 2. Questions I Had Today
- <i>What is SDK?</i> &rarr; Software Development Kit
- Authentication vs Authorization? &rarr; Authentication verifies user's identification; Authorization determines user's access rights and grant access on that level.
- <i>Inbound vs outbound of network traffic?</i> &rarr; Inbound traffic is the data coming into your Azure cloud/resource from the internet or other networks; Outbound traffic is the data leaving your Azure cloud/resource to other network.
- <i>Platform bitness?</i>
- <i>What is scalability? Scale in/out vs up/down?</i>
    - Scalability in cloud computing is the ability to adjust the size/power of an IT solution or resource quickly and easily to meet changing demands.
    - Vertical scaling - scale up: Increase the capacity of a single instance (server) by adding more computing and processing power to a maching &rarr; Allow you to maintain resources while increasing the machine's performance
    - Horizontal scaling: Distribute the workload across multiple machines by adding more instances &rarr; Satisfy changing amouts of requests
    - Auto-scaling: A cloud computing feature that automatically adjust the allocation of resources based on demand.
- <i>What is container in cloud computing?</i> &rarr; Containers are packages of software that contain all of the necessary elements to run in any environment
- <i>What is continous integration/deployment?</i>
    - Continous integration (CI): refers to the practice of automatically and frequently integrating code changes into a shared source code repository.
    - Continous delivery/deployment (CD): 2 part process that referes to the intefration, testing, and deliver of code changes &rarr; Continuous deployment means that a developer's change to a cloud application could go live within minutes of writing it.

# 3. What I Found Challenging Today
- What I found challenging today is how to stay focus to study as much and effectively as possible.

# 4. Code I Wrote Today
- <b>What is Azure App Service? </b>
    - Azure App Service is an HTTP-based service for web applications, APIs, and mobile backends. 
    - Azure App Service features:  
        - Built-in auto scale support
        - Container support
        - Continuous integration/deployment support
        - Deployment slots
- <b>Azure App Service plans?</b>
    - Each App Service plan defines:
        - Operating System (Windows, Linux)
        - Region (West US, East US, etc)
        - Number of VM instances
        - Size of VM instances (small, medium, large)
        - Pricing tier (Free, Shared, Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, PremiumV3, Isolated, IsolatedV2)
    - There are a few categories of pricing tiers:
        - <b>Shared compute</b>: Free and Shared, the two base tiers, runs an app on the same Azure VM as other App Service apps, including apps of other customers. These tiers allocate CPU quotas to each app that runs on the shared resources, and <mark>the resources cannot scale out</mark>
        - <b>Dedicated comput</b>: The Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, PremiumV3 tiers run apps on dedicated Azure VMs. Only apps in the same App Service plan share the same compute resources. <mark>The higher the tier, the more VM instances are available to you for scale-out.</mark>
        - <b>Isolated: The Isolated and IsolatedV2 tiers run dedicated Azure VMs on dedicated Azure Virtual Networks. It provides network isolation on top of compute isolation to your apps. <mark>It provides the maximum scale-out capabilities.</mark>
- <b>Why use the built-in authentication?</b>
    - Azure App Service allows you to integrate various auth capabilities into your web app or API without implementing them yourself. 
    - It's built directly into the platform and doesn't require any particular language, SDK, security expertise, or code. 
    - You can integrate with multiple login provides. For examples: Microsoft Entra ID, Facebook, Google, Twitter.
- <b>Inbound and outbound features?</b>
    - <i>Inbound features:</i>
        - App-assigned address
        - Access restrictions
        - Service endpoints
        - Private endpoints
    - <i>Outboud features:</i>
        - Hybrid Connections
        - Gateway-required virtual network integration
        - Virtual network integration
    - <i>Inbound use case:</i>
        - Support IP-based SSL needs for your app &rarr; App-assigned address
        - Support unshared dedicated inbound address for your app &rarr; App-assigned address
        - Access restrictions

