---
title: Aug 22, 2024
---

# Coding Journal: Aug 22, 2024

# 1. What I Learned and Did Today
- Started studing AZ-204: Implement Azure Functions:
    - Explore Azure Functions
    - Develop Azure Functions

# 2. Questions I Had Today
- I didn't have any question for today.

# 3. What I Found Challenging Today
- Exercise: Create an Azure Function by using Visual Studio Code
- When setting up prompts for the project, even though I downloaded C# extension for VSCode and .NET SDK for Mac, but it kept saying that .NET 8.0 SDK wasn't installed &rarr; I need to add dotnet to the path ```sudo ln -s /usr/local/share/dotnet/dotnet /usr/local/bin/```

# 4. Code I Wrote Today
- What is Azure Functions?
    - Azure Functions is a serverless solution that allows you to write less code, maintain less infrastructure, and save on costs. 
    - Azure Functions supports triggers - ways to start execution of your code, and bindings - ways to simplify coding for input and output data. 
- What is Azure Logic Apps?
    - Azure Logic Apps is serverless workflow integration platform 
- Compare Azure Functions and Azure Logic Apps
    - Similarities: 
        - Both Azure Functions and Azure Logic Apps are serverkless workload
        - Both can create complex orchestrations (orchestration is a collection of functions or steps, called actions in Logic Apps, that are executed to accomplish a complex task)
    - Differences:
        - Azure Functions is a serveless solution, while Azure Logic Apps is a serverless workflow integration platform 
        - For Azure Functions, you develop orchestration by writing code and using Durable Function extensions. Meanwhile, for Azure Logic Apps, you create orchestrations by using GUI or editing configuration files. 
        - Development: 
            - Functions: Code-first (imperative)
            - Logic Apps: Designer-first (declarative)
        - Connectivity: 
            - Functions: about a dozen built-in bindings types, write code for custom bindings
            - Logica Apps: Large collection of connectors, Enterprise Integration Pack for B2B scenarios, build custom connectors
        - Actions: 
            - Functions: Each activity is an Azure function; write code for activity functions
            - Logic Apps: Large collection of ready-made actions
        - Monitoring: 
            - Functions: Azure Application Insights
            - Logic Apps: Azure protal, Azure Monitor lofs
        - Management:
            - Functions: REST API, Visual Studio
            - Logic Apps: Azure portal, REST API, PowerShell, Visual Studio
        - Execution Content:
            - Functions: Runs in Azure or locally
            - Logic Apps: Runs in Azure, locally, or on premises
- Compare Functions and Webjobs
    - Like Azure Functions, Azure App Service WebJobs with the WebJobs SDK is a code-first integration service that is designed for developers.
    - Boht Functions and WebJobs are built on Azure App Service and support features such as source control integration, authentication, and monitoring with Application Insights integration. 
    - Here are some features that Functions has but WebJobs doesn't:
        - Serverless app model with automatic scaling
        - Develop and test in browser
        - Pay-per-use pricing
        - Integration with Logic Apps
    - Functions and WebJobs's trigger events:
        - Timer
        - Azure Storage queues and blobs
        - Azure Service Bus queues and topics
        - Azure Event Hubs
    - Functions trigger events:
        - HTTP/WebHook (Github Slack)
        - Azure Event Frid
    - WebJobs trigger events:
        - File system
    &rarr; Azure Functions offers more developer productivity than Azure App Service WebJobs does. It also offers ore options for programming languages, development environments, Azure service integration, and pricing. 