---
title: Aug 26, 2024
---

# Coding Journal: Aug 26, 2024

# 1. What I Learned and Did Today
- AZ-204: Develop solutions that use Azure Cosmos DB
    - Explore Azure Cosmos DB
    - Work with Azure Cosmos DB
- AZ-204: Implement Containerized solutions
    - Manage container images in Azure Container Registry
    - Run container images in Azure Container Instances
    - Implement Azure Container Apps

# 2. Questions I Had Today
- After AZ-204, you should be able to answer these questions: 
    - Identify the key benefits provided by Azure Cosmos DB
    - Describe the elements in an Azure Cosmos DB account and how they're organized
    - Explain the different consistency levels and choose the correct one for your project
    - Explore the APIs supported in Azure Cosmos DB and choose the appropriate API for your solution
    - Describe how request units impact costs
    - Create Azure Cosmos DB resources by using the Azure portal
    - Identify classes and methods used to create resources

- What is throughput? &rarr;<mark>Throughput is a measure of how much data can be transferred across a network or database in a given amount of time</mark>

# 3. What I Found Challenging Today
- I didn't find anything challenging for today.

# 4. Notes I Took Today

### AZ-204: Develope solutions that use Azure Cosmos DB 

#### Key benefits of Azure Cosmos DB:
- Azure Cosmos DB is fully managed NoSQL database designed to provide low latency, elastic scalability of throughputs, well-defined semantics for data consistency, and high availability
- With Azure Cosmos DB, you can add or remove the regions associated with your account at any time.
- Key benefits of global distribution:  
    - Unlimited elastic write and read scalability 
    - 99.999% read and write availability all around the world
    - Guaranteed reads and writes served in less than 10 milliseconds at the 99th percentile
&rarr; Running a database in multiple regions worldwide increases the availability of a database. If one region is unavailable, other regions automatically handle application requests. Azure Cosmos DB offers 99.999% read and write availability for multi-region database.

####  Explore the resource hierarchy:
- The Azure Cosmos DB account is the fundamental unit of global distribution and high availability.
- Your Azure Cosmos DB account contains a unique Domain Name System (DNS) name and you can manage an account by using: Azure portal, Azure CLI, different specific SDKs
- An Azure Cosmos DB container is the fundamental unit of scalability &rarr; You can virtually have an unlimited throughput (RU/s) and storage on a container.
- Hierarchy of database accounts: Database Accounts &rarr; Databases &rarr; Containers &rarr; stored procedures, user-defined functions, triggers, conflicts, merge procedures, items.
- Hierarchy of containers: Containers &rarr; collection, table, graph, etc.
- Hierarchy of items: Items &rarr; document, row, node, edge, etc.
&rarr; Unlike most relational databases, which scale up with larger sizes of virtual machines, <mark>Azure Cosmos DB scales out.</mark>

#### Azure Cosmos DB containers
- <mark> Azure Cosmos DB container is the fundamental unit of scalability.</mark>
- An Azure Cosmos DB container is where data is stored.
- Data is stored on one or more servers called partitions.
- When you create a container, you need to supply <b>a partition key</b> - a property that you select from your items to <b>help Azure Cosmos DB distribute the data efficiently across partitions.</b> 
- The underlying storage mechanism for data in Azure Cosmos DB is called physical partition. Physical parititions can have a throughput amount up to 10,000 Request Units per second, and they can store up to 50 GB of data.
- Azure Cosmos DB abstracts this paritioning concept with a logical parition, which can store up to 20GB of data.
- When you create a container, you configure throughput in one of the following modes:  
    - Dedicated throughput: The throughput on a container is <i>exclusively reserved for that container</i>. There are two types of dedicated throughput: <b>standard and autoscale</b>
    - Share thoughput: Throughput is specified at the database level and then shared with up to 25 containers within the database. Sharing of throughput excludes containers that are configured with their own dedicated throughput. 
- Depending on which API you use, individual data entities can be represented in various ways: 
    - Azure Cosmos DB entity - Azure Cosmos DB item
    - API for NoSQL - Item
    - API for Cassandra - Row
    - API for MongoDB - Document
    - API for Gremlin - Node or edge
    - API for Table - Item

#### Consistency levels and how to choose the right consistency level
- Explore consistency levels: <mark>Strong, Bounded Staleness, Session, Consistent Prefix, Eventual</mark> (higher availability, lower latency, higher throughput) &rarr; <b><i>Eventual consistency level offers the highest throughput at the cost of weaker consistency.</i></b>
- <b><i>Strong consistency</i></b>: 
    - Offer a linearizability guarantee. 
    - Linearizability refers to serving requests concurrently. 
    - The reads are guaranteed to return the most recent committed version of an item &rarr; A client never sees an uncommitted or partial write &rarr; Users are always guaranteed to read the latest committed write.
- <b><i>Bounded staleness consistency</i></b>:    
    - In bounded staleness consistency, the lag of data between any two regions is always less than a specified amount. 
    - When you choose bounded staleness, the maximum "staleness" of the data in any region can be configured in two ways: 
        - The number of versions (K) of the item
        - The time interval (T) reads might lag behind the writes
    - Bounded Staleness is beneficial primarily to single-region write accounts with two or more regions.
    - If the data lag in a region exceeds the configured staleness value, writes for that partition are throttled until staleness is back within the configured upper bound.  
    - For a single-region account, Bounded Staleness provides the same consistency guarantees as Session and Eventual Consistency. 
    - With Bounded Staleness, data is replicated to a local majority in the single region. 
- <b><i>Session consistency</i></b>:
    - In a session consistency, within a single client session, reads are guaranteed to honer the read-your-writes, and write-follows-reads guarantees. This guarantee assumes a single "writer" session or sharing the session token for multiple writers. 
- <b><i>Consistent prefix consistency</i></b>:
    - In consistent prefix, updates made as single document writes see eventual consistency. 
    - Updates made as a batch within a transaction, are returned consistent to the transaction in which they were committed.
    - Write operations within a transaction of multiple documents are always visible together. 
- <b><i>Eventual consistency</i></b>:
    - In eventual consistency, there's no ordering guarantee for reads. In the absence of any futher writes, the replicas eventually converge.
    - Eventual consistency is the weakest form of consistency because a client might read the values that are older than the ones it reads before. 

<mark>(*) Like all consistency levels weaker than Strong, writes are replicated to a minimum of three replicas (in a four replica set) in the local region, with asynchronous replication to all other regions</mark>

#### Explore supported APIs:
- API for NoSQL is native to Azure Cosmos DB
- API for Mongodb, PostgreSQL, Cassandra, Gremlin, and Table implement the wrire protocol of open source database engines. These APIs are best suited if the following conditions are true:        
    - If you have existing MongoDB, PostgreSQL, Gremlin, and Table applications
    - If you don't want to rewrite your entire data access layer
    - If you want to use open-source ecosystem, client-drivers, expertise, and resources for your database
- Azure Cosmos DB API for NoSQL stores data in document format
- Azure Cosmos DB API for MongoDB stores data in document structure, via BSON format
- Azure Cosmos DB API for PostgreSQL stores data in a single node, or distributed in multi-node configuration
- Azure Cosmos DB API for Gremlin allows users to make graph queries and store data as edges and nodes. Use Gremlin for scenarios where:
    - Involving dynamic data
    - Involving data with complex relations
    - Involving data that is too complex to be modeled with relational databases
    - If you want to use the existing Gremlin ecosystem and skills
- The Azure Cosmos DB API for Table stores data in key/value format:
    - If you're using Azure Table storage, you might see some limitations in latency, scaling, throughput, global distribution, index management, low query performance.
    - API for Table overcomes these limitations and the recommendation is to migrate your app if you want to use the benefits of Azure Cosmos DB .
    - API for Table only supports OLTP scenarios.

#### Explore Request Units:
- The cost of all databases operations is normalized in Azure Cosmos DB and expressed by RUs &rarr; <mark>Request Unit is a measurement used to express the cost of all database operations in Azure Cosmos DB, including write, point reads, and queries.</mark>
- A request unit (RU) represents the system resources such as CPU, IOPS, and memory that are required to perform the database operations supported by Azure Cosmos DB

---

- What is the purpose of the context object in a stored procedure in Azure Cosmos DB? &rarr; It provides access to all operations that can be performed in Azure Cosmos DB, and access to the request and response objects.
- What is the role of pretriggers in Azure Cosmos DB? &rarr; Pretriggers are executed before modifying a database item and must be specified for each database operation where you want them to execute
- What is the purpose of the lease container in the Azure Cosmos DB change feed processor? &rarr; It acts as a state storage and coordinates processing the change feed across multiple workers.

---
