---
title: Nov 21, 2023
---
# Coding Journal: Nov 21, 2023

## 1. What I Learned and Did Today
- Completed Agile Software Development course.
- Updated my website
- Continued with Leetcode 75 to freshen up my DSA knowledge
- Reviewed and updated my MD Files Generator project:
    - Got rid of the function to create single Markdown files and the function to generate 7 Markdown files all at once. Instead, create one function to take amount as extra argument to create the specified number of files. If amount is not given, it will genearte 7 files as default.
    - Create two templates which are Coding Journal and Daily Practice. If user specified it in the terminal, while generating Markdown files, the system will generate the template inside the files as well. 
    - Create add content and update content function. Add content will append the new content to the existing file, while the update content function will get rid of the old content and update the whole thing.
- Learned about Cadence Vs Ad-hoc Updates

## 2. Questions I Have

### What are the key notes and takeaways you had after learning about Agile? 
- In English, Agile means being able to move quickly and easily. With the Agile mindset, the ultimate goal is to deliver your product quickly, easily, and effectively. 
- A product is built on user's requirements and User Story is the currency of the Agile development and it's also the efficient way to work on various features of a product or project.
- User Story is built based on a template Who wants What and Why?. For example: As a user, I want to have a tool so that it helps me generate Markdowns file automatically.
- In the Agile development, collaboration and communication are very important in the working environment, so that the progress of the whole team can be faster, more effective, and roadblocks will be cleared as soon as possible.
- Agile is a flexible and adaptive methodology that embraces changes throughout the development process. It breaks the project into numerous smaller phases, each involving building, testing, and deploying. If new features or changes are required, they are seamlessly integrated into the subsequent sprint, ensuring continuous improvement and adaptability.
- Speaking of sprint, sprint planning and tracking are key steps in Agile management as well. With a team, backlog isused to keep track of the process and sprint planning is how the leader and the whole team can estimate how fast and what the priorities they should work on during each sprint.

- There are four manifesto and twelve principles in Agile:

#### Four Agile Manifesto:
- Individuals and Interactions over Processes and Tools.
- Working Software over Comprehensive Documentation.
- Customer Collaboration over Contract Negotiation.
- Responding To Change over Following A Plan.

#### Twelve Agile Principles
- Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
- Welcome changing requirements, even late in development. Agile processes harness change for the customer's competitive advantage.
- Deliver working software frequently, from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
- Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.
- Build projects around the motivated individuals. Give them the environment and support they need, and trust them to get the job done.
- The most efficient and effective method of conveying information to and within a development team is face-to-face conversation.
- Working software is the primary measure of progress.
- Agile processes promote sustainable development. The sponsors, developers, and users should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
- Continuous attention to technical excellence and good design enhances agility.
- Simplicity - the art of maximizing the amount of work not done - is essential.
- The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.
- At regular intervals, the team reflects on how to become more effective, then tunes and adjusts its behavior accordingly.


### After learning about Agile, how can I apply it to my own journey? 
- Create my own daily stand-ups, which I will answer the question "What I Did Yesterday" by writing coding journal, answer the question "What I'm going to day" by informing my mentor what I will do during the day and what are the priority of these tasks. Update whenever I completed an important milestone. 
- Before any project, I should have a general idea of what I'll work on. Writing User Stories is a good technique to enhance the project and break down the whole projects into small tasks so that I won't feel overwhelmed. 
- When having tasks, it's important to know the priority so the sooner I can sort out the priorities and what features I should work on first, the better.
- Also when it comes to building a tool, it's better to make sure it works with the most basic or simplest functionalities first, then improve it later. 
- Seek feedback, adapt, and reflect. After each feature or when I finish a User Story, I should seek some feedback about it to improve or fix if there's something wrong in it. Adapt if there are changes or new features needed to be added to. Reflect the whole process: what I did well, what I didn't well, and how I can improve.

### Why do we need Regular Expression? 
- Regex is mostly used for pattern matching and string manipulation.
- With regular expression, you can find and search a sequence of characters which has specified pattern.
- It works with different programming languages as well so it's crucial to understand REGEX


### Candence vs Ad-hoc meetings
- Ad-hoc meetings are the meetings that occurr outside the usual recurring meetings or meeting rhythms.
- When should we have Ad-hoc meetings? Something comes up that can't wait until the next regular meeting, which is urgent or required action immediately.
- Ad-hoc meetings are more spontaneous while candence is determined with the proper amount of well-structured meetings 
- A meeting cadence refers to the rhythms and pattern of regular scheduled meetings. 

## 3. What I Found Challenging
- Keep mentor updated
- Forgot and not able to solve DSA problems fast and optimal


## 4. Code I Wrote Today

#### Updating MD File Generator project 

Update generate_md_files function and added add_new_content and update_content functions

```python title="md_file_manager.py"
def generate_md_file(directory, args):
    if args.days:
        amount = args.days
    else:
        amount = 7

    if path_exists(directory):
        today = datetime.date.today()
        for i in range(1, amount + 1):
            file_date = today + datetime.timedelta(days=i)
            file_name = f"{file_date.strftime('%Y%m%d')}.md"
            file_path = f"{directory}/{file_name}"
            with open(file_path, "w") as f:
                if args.coding:
                    coding_journal_template = open("/Users/quinnle/PycharmProjects/md-file-manager/templates/coding_journal_template.md", "r")
                    lines = coding_journal_template.read()
                    f.write(lines)
                elif args.practice:
                    daily_practice_template = open("/Users/quinnle/PycharmProjects/md-file-manager/templates/daily_practice_template.md", "r")
                    lines = daily_practice_template.read()
                    f.write(lines)
                else:
                    f.write(f"{file_date.strftime('%Y%m%d')}")
            f.close()
            print(f"New file {file_name} is created.")
        print(f"Finish creating {amount} file(s).")
    else:
        print(f"{directory} does not exist.")
        return


def update_content(file, new_content):
    if is_md_file(file):
        with open(file, "w") as f:
            f.write(new_content)
        print(f"New content has been updated in {file}")
    else:
        print(f"{file} file does not exist.")


def add_new_content(file, new_content):
    if is_md_file(file):
        with open(file, "a") as f:
            f.write(new_content)
        print(f"New content is added to {file}")
        f.close()
    else:
        print("Invalid path or file.")
```

Update main file which I added commands

```python title="main.py"
from md_file_manager import *
import argparse


def main():
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description="MD File Manager")
    parser.add_argument("-p", "--path", help="Check if the specified path exists in the system")
    parser.add_argument("-f", "--file", help="Verify the specified file is a Markdown (.md) file")
    parser.add_argument("-r", "--read", help="Read and display the contents of a specified file.")
    parser.add_argument("-co", "--count", help="Count the number of Markdown (.md) files in the specified "
                        "directory. Use '.' to count files in the current directory.")
    parser.add_argument("-g", "--generate", help="Generate multiple Markdown files. "
                        "If specified is not entered, default amount of files will be created is 7.")
    parser.add_argument("-a", "--add", help="Add new content to existing files.")
    parser.add_argument("-u", "--update", help="Updated contents of Markdown files in the specified directory.")
    parser.add_argument("-d", "--days", type=int, help="Number of days to generate files for (default: 7).")
    parser.add_argument("-ct", "--content", type=str, help="New content for updating.")
    parser.add_argument("-cj", "--coding", action="store_true", help="Generate file with Coding Journal template")
    parser.add_argument("-dp", "--practice", action="store_true", help="Generate file with Daily Practice template")

    args = parser.parse_args()

    if args.path:
        if path_exists(args.path):
            print(f"The path {args.path} exists.")
        else:
            print(f"The path {args.path} does not exist.")

    if args.file:
        if is_md_file(args.validatemd):
            print(f"{args.validatemd} is a valid Markdown file.")
        else:
            print(f"{args.validatemd} is not a valid Markdown file.")

    if args.read:
        print("Start reading file...")
        read_file(args.read)
        print("-Finish reading file-")

    if args.count:
        count_md_files(args.count)

    if args.generate:
        generate_md_file(args.generate, args)
        print("Multiple Markdown files are created.")

    if args.add:
        add_new_content(args.add, args.content)

    if args.update:
        update_content(args.update, args.content)
        print("New content is updated.")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

```
